TL;DR

- ``chmod u+x <scriptfile>``
- ``#! /full/path/to/python`` on line 1
- ``scp hashme.py pi@10.0.1.7:bin/hashme``
- ``export PATH=~/bin:$PATH`` or better 
- put it in ``~/.bash_profile``

#### Python version

Let's go through this short script step-by-step.

[**hashme.py**](../python-scripts/hashme.py)

I generally run scripts by doing ``python <filename>``.

Alternatively one can just do ``</path/to/filename>`` (must start with a directory), if the first line of the script is like this:  ``#! /usr/bin/python``, called the "hash-bang" format.

In this case, Python 3 is ``/usr/local/bin/python3`` on the Mac and ``/usr/bin/python3`` on the Pi.  So that will need to be edited before copying over to the Pi.

Modules that we need

```
import sys, hashlib, base64
```

We take the name of a website as an argument on the command line, but print a helpful message if no name is provided:

```
try:
    site = sys.argv[1]
except IndexError:
    print("Usage: please enter some text (quoted if spaces)")
    sys.exit()
```

If no args are given to the script, ``argv`` contains simply the script name.

Provide the ability to specify output length --- ignoring the possibility that the requested length is too large:

```
if len(sys.argv) > 1:
   try:
       n = int(sys.argv[2])
   except:
       n = 20
```

We don't bother to handle errors gracefully for this example.

We use the public key.  (This should probably be ``id_rsa``.  But this just what i used in this quick workup).

```
kf = "/home/pi/.ssh/id_rsa.pub"
#kf = "/Users/telliott_admin/.ssh/id_rsa.pub"
```

I toggle between the two for testing on the Mac and the Pi.

The newer idiom for file handling is ``with .. as ..`` so:

```
with open(kf) as file:
    key_data = file.read().strip().split()[1]
    s = key_data + site
```

The code for computing a digest is in ``hashlib``.  This is a Python 2 version because I am not that swift with Python 3 bytes yet.  I will get back to that later.

```
m = hashlib.sha256()
m.update(s.encode('utf8'))
d = m.digest()
b = base64.b64encode(d)

# convert to string
b = b.decode('utf-8')
```

base64 ([wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Base64)) has some characters I don't want in the output:

```
D = {'+':'', '/':''}
tt = str.maketrans(D)
b = b.translate(tt)

print(b[:n])
```

Let's see how it can work on the Pi.

#### Using the script

As we said, edit to have the right path to Python, and to the keyfile.

Make a ``bin`` sub-directory of ``home`` on the Pi.  

Change the script to executable.  We can do that while still on the Mac Desktop:

```
chmod u+x hashme.py
```

Typically, I use the ``.py`` extension, but for commands that will be executed without the leading ``python``, I usually leave it off.  Thus ``scp``:

```
> scp hashme.py pi@10.0.1.7:bin/hashme
hashme                100%  496   137.8KB/s   00:00    
>
```

Now the script is named ``hashme`` on the Pi.  Basic usage.

```
pi@raspberrypi:~ $ bin/hashme
Usage: please enter some text (quoted if spaces)
pi@raspberrypi:~ $ bin/hashme site.com
yLj4VPDWFDEA3OCQjQAx
pi@raspberrypi:~ $ bin/hashme site.edu 30
VK5GkothbQI8omC1s5yZOkxV5F62xo
```

And that's what we're looking for.  A "password" generated based on our secret key and the name of the website.  Something that can be regenerated easily in the future without having to remember the secret.

We want to make the script executable from anywhere for this user.  A simple way is to add the ``bin`` directory to her/his ``$PATH``.

```
pi@raspberrypi:~ $ export PATH=~/bin:$PATH
pi@raspberrypi:~ $ hashme site.com
yLj4VPDWFDEA3OCQjQAx
```

A more durable solution is to put the path modification (that same one-liner) into ``.bash_profile``.

<hr>

A Python 2 example would go something like:

```
# makeshift, Python 2 only
D = {'/':'', '+':''}
for k in D:
    b = b.replace(k,D[k])
```
